Okay, today we're going to talk about
I think for modern workers
It's a must-have ability
AI fluency
Believe me
This will completely change
The way you work with AI
Let's just talk about one
You may have a sense of pain
Have you ever had that experience
Just talking to AI for a long time
But it seems to be
Can't catch the focus you want
I have such a powerful tool in my hand
I always feel stuck when I use it
That's right
These mistakes
No matter if you get some
根本没用的回复
Or you think your mouth is stupid
I don't know
I'm even worried about whether the information is safe
It's all about
A very fundamental problem
It's just an AI tool
With real AI
There's actually a very, very big red hook in the middle
How do you get through this red hook?
The answer is to cultivate
Our topic today is called
AI fluency
And I have to say
This is far more than just learning
The so-called tips and tricks are so simple
It has to be more fundamental and stronger
To put it bluntly
AI fluency is actually a set
A complete new method
It's not just a few tricks
It also includes a lot of knowledge
Movement
Even values
The ultimate goal is to make us very efficient
Very safe and responsible
Put AI's potential to the greatest
This is really very, very important
What we're talking about here
It's not the kind of 10-to-10 tips on the internet
That kind of thing might be outdated tomorrow
What we're going to do is
To build a set that can be constantly adapted
And can be used on any AI system
Core ability
This is a long-term thinking framework
Not a short-term shortcut
Okay, so to build this thinking framework
What's the first step?
Very simple
Let's understand it first
Between us and AI
There are actually three basic interactive modes
You can ask yourself
You are now using AI as a tool
A partner
Or an agent?
The first and most common one is automation
This mode is very simple
Think about it
At this time, you are like a commander
You give a very clear command
AI will help you execute
For example, ask him to make this file a pick-up
Or help me copy a letter
The goal is very clear
You order it to be completed
Then the second
Let's call it really strong
At this time, the AI character is not the same
It's more like your creative partner
Especially when the problem has no standard answer
When you need brain power
AI is your best companion
Like you can think of a story character together
Or step by step
To solve a very complicated issue
The last one is the agent
In this mode
Your role has been upgraded
You become like a director
After you set the direction and game rules
AI can represent you
You can work independently
The most typical example
Is to let him automatically help you categorize e-mail
Or in the game
Play a role that can interact with players in time
Look at this chart
Just sort these three modes very clearly
Your role will be a commander
Become an assistant
Even a director
The key here is
Which mode is the best
The point is
You have to know how to choose the most suitable interaction mode for different tasks
OK
We know there are three interaction modes
No matter which mode
What exactly should we do
To make it smooth
The next 4D framework
Is the core skill you need to master
These four core skills
We call them 4D
Sounds cool, doesn't it?
They are
Delegation
Description
Determination
And diligence
The first D is Delegation
This is the first step of the strategy
Super important
It requires us to think clearly before we start
What is my goal this time
In the whole process
Which parts should be handled by me, the human expert
Which parts will be more efficient for AI
This is a kind of wisdom about division
OK, the second D
Description
Hey, pay attention
This is not just what we usually say
It's more like a deep communication
You need to tell AI about the background, upper and lower lines clearly
And the picture and vision in your mind
The better you describe
The more likely you are to succeed
Wow, look at this example
Super obvious comparison
The fuzzy requirements on the left
Like making a logo for me
And the specific details of the brand title, color, target group, etc. on the right
Think about it
The result given by AI is definitely far away
This is the core skill
The third D
Description
OK, when AI gives you something
It's your turn to be professional
You can't accept the whole thing
But like a general editor
Use your professional knowledge and critical thinking
To evaluate what AI gives you
What is useful and what is garbage
Then divide them
So when you are describing
You need to have a list in your mind
Keep asking yourself a few questions
Hey, the data given by AI
Have you checked the facts?
Does its logic work?
Does it give me any advice
Is there any conflict with my original values or goals?
The most important thing is
Can this thing really help me solve the problem?
So you see, describing and distinguishing
These two things
Form a very, very strong cycle of the right side
We propose a demand, which is description
Then evaluate the result, which is discrimination
Then follow the evaluation results
To evaluate the results
OK, the last D is
This sounds a bit serious
But it's a sense of responsibility as a user
No matter how much AI has helped you
The final product
You have to take full responsibility
This includes the correctness of the information you want to check
The privacy of the data protection
And ensure that the entire process is fair and transparent
Can be reviewed
So when we put the three interactive modes I mentioned earlier
And this 4D frame
Combined together
You will find a clear path to an AI assistant
Just appeared
I think this sentence is too good
The key is really here
The 4D frame we learned today
It is not bound to any specific AI tool
It is a basic, fundamental skill
As long as you master it
No matter how the technology changes in the future
You can adapt and grow with it
Through the real strategy of mastering the tail
Description of art
The wisdom of discrimination
And the sense of responsibility
You can start from a person who only orders
Really transformed into an expert who can cooperate with AI
Now it's your turn to think about it
Next time when you open the AI tool
How will you apply this 4D frame